*JCP_Bhagavata_Foundation_160420*

This is a summary of Srimad Bhagavatam Canto 1 Chapter 2: Divinity and Divine Service
1. Bhagavatam is a amara-purana. Srila Vyasdeva compiled all the Vedas, Upanishads and puranas and was still not satisfied. His dilemma wanted the spiritualists, jnanis, yogis to understand and accept the Supreme knowledge. Sukdeva Goswami was greatest monist and he had left his home and went deep into forest for meditation.
2. nivṛtta-tarṣair upagīyamānād bhavauṣadhāc chrotra-mano-'bhirāmāt ka uttamaśloka-guṇānuvādāt pumān virajyeta vinā paśughnāt [SB 10.1.4] Glory of Srimad Bhagavatam: This is a medicine, even for those who are in Brahmanandam. This caught Sukadeva Goswami's attention and was brought back to home.
3. What is real Dharma (Occupational duty) by doing which will give us most pleasure? narayanam namskritya [SB 1.2.4] *Bhagavatam is for getting victory in the war with material nature*. sa vai puṁsāṁ paro dharmo yato bhaktir adhokṣaje ahaituky apratihatā yayātmā suprasīdati [SB 1.2.6]
4. Issues of controlling senses? Knowledge and renunciation comes from hearing Bhagavatam. shrama eva hi kevalam [SB 1.2.8] All other occupations are simply wasteful struggle.
5. [SB 1.2.10] Life’s desires should never be directed toward sense gratification. One should desire only a healthy life, or self-preservation, since a human being is meant for inquiry about the Absolute Truth. Nothing else should be the goal of one’s works.
6. We should not aspire to become good karmis, but we need to focus on becoming devotees while working to lead a good life. We should achieve Bhagavan through our occupation.
7. The seriously inquisitive student or sage, well equipped with knowledge and detachment, realizes that Absolute Truth by rendering devotional service in terms of what he has heard from the Vedānta-śruti. [SB 1.2.12]
8. saṁsiddhir hari-toṣaṇam [SB 1.2.13] According to your occupation, you are goal should be to please the Personality of Godhead.
9. [SB 1.2.14] Therefore, with one-pointed attention, one should constantly hear about, glorify, remember and worship the Personality of Godhead, who is the protector of the devotees. With the sword of knowledge, cut the knot of work that binds the soul. How to get the sword? By the hearing process. The ability to sacrifice to hear vāsudeva-kathā-ruciḥ [SB 1.2.16]
10. How to get the taste for hearing? We should serve the devotees of the Lord. śṛṇvatāṁ sva-kathāḥ kṛṣṇaḥ [SB 1.2.17]. I need to do nothing, just by associating with devotees, the dirt in the heart will be cleansed.
11. naṣṭa-prāyeṣv abhadreṣu: By regular attendance in classes on the Bhāgavatam and by rendering of service to the pure devotee, all that is troublesome to the heart is almost completely destroyed, and loving service unto the Personality of Godhead, who is praised with transcendental songs, is established as an irrevocable fact. [SB 1.2.18] *One way ticket to the transcendental world of Krishna.*
12. We should just be in the sadhana process and we'll automatically purified. for e.g. iron rod put in fire. The activities of Lord when heard, they go into heart and cut all the knots of material attraction and clear all the doubts during purification. *The taste for material work reduces, doubts are cleared and your desire to do material work will be removed when you're shown who you are.*
13. Fire is the platform for sattva-guna. The Supreme Lord came into three forms, Lord Vishnu, Lord Shiva and Lord Brahma; and we should follow Lord Vishnu. Why? sattvam tattva-darshanam. *Practicing sattva-guna in day-to-day lives is very important for spiritual progress.*
14. *Krishna is the object of Knowledge.* Like fire is present all the varieties of wood. Krishna is present with all the living entities irrespective of his varnashrama or nature. Being in sattva-guna means you're a student of Bhagavatam and can be reclaimed back to home Back To GodHead!

*Question Answers*
1. Is Bhagavad Gita the best management book? Krishna is the greatest manager because He is managing the entire Universe. *Learn the technique of let go off the microcontrol over others.*
2. Is the system of Practicing yoga different from what Lord Krishna has said? Yoga is any activity that is being done to connect with the Lord and not just bodily exercises. If you're simply mechanically doing exercises with no motivation to connect with Lord then it is not yoga.
3. Are the Bhagavad-gita verses 10.8-20 central message of Gita? Yes! Srila Prabhupada also tells that. aham atma gudakesha [BG 10.20]
4. Can you Explain more on our services being accepted by Krishna, then only it is devotional service (bhakti) otherwise it is just punyakarma? Yes. We should (ideally) only do actions that please the Supreme Lord. There shouldn't be hidden agenda for ourselves. *Even our goal and understanding in Chanting of the holy names should be for Lord Krishna's pleasure and not for personal taste and happiness.* If there were a camera that could capture our thoughts then there would be only "I, Me and Mine" and no Lord. But in pure devotee's mind, only Lord is present in every activity. Only when we are absolutely surrendered, then Vrindavan Krishna will accept our service and until then Krishna accepts service in His other forms.
5. Vyasdeva compiled Srimad Bhagavatam, Sukadeva Goswami narrated Srimad Bhagavatam and there is a compilation of the discussion again. How do we understand this?
6. Activites are binding me. What am I trying to gain? Krishna or something else? My agenda or Krishna's agenda? Akarma should be our goal. Totally offered to the Lord.*
