*CPP_FAQ_071214*

1. *What is Spiritual progress?* (Arjuna also asks similar question in [BG 2.54]) The scriptures' Knowledge is not some sentimental or imaginative work. It is not vague or unclear. Acharyas have explained with utmost attention. Some spiritual organizations give vague answers - being good, honest, peaceful, not greedy etc. is Spiritual but it is a lot more than just being a ethical person of character. [SB 1.2.8] The occupational activities a man performs according to his own position are only so much *useless labor if they do not provoke attraction for the message of the Personality of Godhead.*
2. Srila Prabhupada's instructions to celebrate Janmashtami - Fast whole day and continuously read Krishna book with the goal to finish before midnight. If you love somebody, you love to hear their activities and never get tired of it. for e.g. Parents get so excited to hear the first words of their child and they share with their loved ones. Also, as you grow spiritually, your material desires filled with lust, anger and greed will come down. *If you have advanced spiritually then your heart will be filled with Joy and it can't be taken away from you by any means and in any circumstances.*
3. *How can Bhakti and Knowledge be interrelated?* Is Knowledge included in Bhakti or not? Bhakti is the highest stage of development of Consciousness. Greatest Acharyas were all great scholars and well-versed in Knowledge. But this Knowledge should acquired by submissively learning from disciplic succession rather than speculation. *“Devotional service of the Lord that ignores the authorized Vedic literatures like the Upaniṣads, Purāṇas and Nārada-pañcarātra is simply an unnecessary disturbance in society.” [Bhakti-rasāmṛta-sindhu 1.2.101]* To those who are constantly devoted and worship Me with love, I give the understanding by which they can come to Me. [BG 10.10] Bhakti is independent of Knowledge but Knowledge is not fully beneficial until Bhakti element is added.
4. *How can a person without Knowledge, know whether a spiritual master is bonafide?* Srila Prabhupada's example: You must have basic Knowledge of diamonds to buy them otherwise you might get cheated with glass pieces. Right store, Right person, Known sources, Take guidance from people and observe examples. shrotriyam - guru-shishya parampara which should be originating from Krishna because He is param-guru. Convictions of a Guru are very Strong and they can pass it on to others. Like Srila Prabhupada: Is there a spiritual position from when one can never fall? Krishna Consciousness.
5. *If somebody earned money in a wrong way and donated some money to temple, then does Krishna accept such donation and how can we know?* For such a person, he'll have a transformation of heart sooner or later to not earn money in wrong ways. The act of offering is observed by Lord but it does not mean that it becomes acceptable. *You can donate to spiritual master to engage the money in the service of Krishna.* So, if the money is engaged in devotional service with the help of a representative of Krishna; like deity service, distribution of books and prashadam, etc and no other purpose then it is accepted by Krishna.
6. *How to develop compassion towards our fellow working people? How to develop unalloyed devotional service unto Krishna?* 1. Process the situation using Spiritual Knowledge. Fundamental problems birth, oldage, disease, death. Material happiness is not everlasting and hence we should prepare with practical solutions in our lives. 2. To follow the orders of Spiritual master of sharing the Spiritual Knowledge with othes. Keep your life simple. Have simple requirements otherwise life will become unnecessarily complicated and there will be lack of time for devotional service. Be satisfied with whatever comes on it's own accord while doing your duties diligently.
7. *How is a living entity forced to act by the 3 modes of material nature?* The 3 modes of nature are subtle energies that influence the Consciousness of the living entities. Your desires, thinking, feeling, aspirations, actions are all influenced. for. e.g. strings of a puppet and you lose individuality.
