*KSP_QA_Faith_Shoonyavada*

1. Questions that we can have: What is Faith? How can we increase our Faith? And How to chant with our current Faith?
2. Krishnadas Kaviraj Goswami - shraddha shabde vishwas kahe sudrudha nischay krishna bhakti kaile sarva karma krita haya. We don't have to perform any other duties if we perform Krishna Conscious service. *Srila Prabhupada defines Faith as Unflinching Trust in something sublime.*
3. What should we check before investing Faith? check Authority of the Personality. Faith is different from blind faith. For e.g. you buy a ticket to some other place from authorized outlet. How can a piece of paper take you to other place? Complete faith can put only in Guru and Krishna and everywhere else is pro-rata basis.
4. 9 levels of Faith - *adau-shraddha* - It is not weak. You're convinced that Krishna Consciousness lifestyle is good. *sadhusanga* - Start associating more with devotees. *bhajan-kriya* - Engage in devotional service.
5. *A sadhu is the one who has only one business - constantly engage himself in Lord Krihna's service and engage others in Lord's service.*
6. As a student, he may take courses. His purpose is to gain Knowledge. A student should not bother about Professor's or anyone else's personal problems? - adhika prasangan - over intelligence. Unnecessarily don't engage. Focus on the business, don't hang around and get it done. If this is maintained then there won't be any Familiarity.
7. We're in the part of 500 + 10000 years of Satya yuga in Kali-yuga. Golden age.
8. Can we go Back to Godhead in this lifetime and how much time it'll take? BG 2.72 last How much time to become Krishna Conscious - 1 second or even millions of births is also not enough. It is only the matter of understanding and accepting Krishna consciousness principles. You shouldn't conclude that it is not required and reject it then it is very difficult to practice. Otherwise, If spiritual master gives the permission/recommendation then also we can go back - causeless mercy - kripa siddhas.
9. What is kaivalya or samadhi? *Krishna Consciousness is Samadhi!* Samadhi doesn't mean death. It is constant meditation on the Supreme Lord. Samadhi doesn't mean to become zero or to meditate on zero. Voidness, Nothingness - what remains to meditate upon? We need an object to meditate -> Lord Vishnu, His form, His pastimes, His Holy names, His instructions... For Arjuna, shooting arrows perfectly on battlefield was samadhi. Being absorbed in Krishna's instructions.
10. For a devotee, dying while preaching is victory. Preaching, glorifying the Lord, engaging in devotional service of the Lord and His instructions is samadhi for devotees.
11. *ISKCON flight is the safest flight among all the flights to Goloka Vrindavan. Captain is Srila Prabhupada!*
12. *Shuddhanama - If we chant offenselessly, then in a split second, you can go back to Godhead. Always focus on your business, how to increase engagement rather than wasting time in pointing down on others and commiting an offense. Offenses should be minimized and business in Krishna Consciousness should be maximized.* Then you're intelligent and have tremendous enthusiasm and progress.
