*SB_2_2_37_VAKP_Vamanadeva_190909_24*

1. How are our present lives polluted with artificial needs? They should cultivate the process of simple living and high thinking. Keep our needs minimum in life.
2. Example is given of the devotee who should have been focussing on studing Bhagavad-gita as instructed but becomes a landlord and forgot the goal of life.
3. We get so caught up with the material necessities of life. It is an illusion thinking that we can't live without them. It becomes more and more difficult to hear and chant the holy names of the Lord.
4. What was the purpose of appearance of Lord Vamanadeva - a dwarf brahmachari. He originally appeared as four-handed form of Lord Vishnu. Planets and stars arrange themselves in auspiciously and there was happiness all over. And then Lord transformed himself as a dwarf. Lord received gifts from various personalities.
5. The demigods were cursed to lose their heavenly planets. And Bali Maharaj had acquired it. Lord Vamanadeva had come to return the possessions of the demigods. Lord is omnipotent even in his dwarf form.
6. 3 steps of land. Bali Maharaj said "Only 3 steps of land is very less and you should ask for more.." and then Lord said "Actually for me three steps are sufficient. As a Brahmana I should not ask for anything more than I need." Man can never be content. Srila Prabhuada teachings tell us that we should be satisfied with minimum needs while being Krishna Conscious.
7. Just before the confirmation of the 3 steps boon, Shukracharya interrupted Bali Maharaj. He said Lord has come here to cheat you and take away all your possessions. He was not an actual spiritual master. A true spiritual master will only ask you to serve the Lord by all means. Shukracharya did material calculation = If you give to Lord then you are a loser. But it is actually you're the greatest benefitter.
8. Everybody was filled with awe when Lord Vamanadeva expanded limilessly and he assumed the form of Trivikrama. *3 steps: 1. Entire Earthly planets 2. heavenly planets (pierced material world and touched the spiritual world. And at this time, mother Ganga came to material world) and in two steps covered the entire universe. 3. Bali Maharaj offered his forehead*
9. Lord had expanded as Trivikrama. "How come Bali offered his head for his third step. Would it be sufficient?" The possessor is greater than his possessions. balir atma nivedanam. "Did Lord cheat Bali Maharaj?" it is the cheating of affection with his great devotee.
10. We can surrender fully unto the Supreme Lord's lotusfeet only when we are free from all material possessions. Lord gave Bali Maharaj, the planet of Sutala. That planet has no influence of the tribulations of the material world.
11. Superficially he was at loss. But we can understand that he was the greatest gainer both materially and spiritually.
