*SB_2_8_16_MHVP_HKM_Hyd*

1. Parikshit Maharaj continues his enquiry to understand the span of the material world, characteristics and activities of devotees, divisions of varnashrama.
2. Lord Kapila explained to mother Devahuti - sarva mahaguna gana vaishnava. All good qualities of Krishna are exhibited by pure devotees. titikshavah - tolerant, suhrt - well-wisher of all, ajat-shatravah - no enemies, shantavah - very peaceful. All characteristics are sublime. These are just a few of the 26 Qualities of Vaishnava.
3. Unflinching faith in Guru and Krishna makes all good qualities to develop in devotees. dharmam mulam hi bhagavan sarva vedamayo harih [SB 7.11.7] Peace of mind, body, soul can be guranteed by studying Srimad Bhagavatam.
4. *How rare is Krishna Consciousness?* jnanatah sulabha muktir bhuktir yajnadi punyatah seyam sadhana-sahasrair hari-bhaktih sudurlabha [Bhakti-rasamrita-sindhu 1.1.36] Out of many thousands among men, one may endeavor for perfection, and of those who have achieved perfection, hardly one knows Me in truth. [BG 7.3]
5. *Why should we aspire to continue on the path of bhakti?* In this endeavor there is no loss or diminution, and a little advancement on this path can protect one from the most dangerous type of fear. [BG 2.40] The unsuccessful yogī, after many, many years of enjoyment on the planets of the pious living entities, is born into a family of righteous people, or into a family of rich aristocracy. Or he takes his birth in a family of transcendentalists who are surely great in wisdom. Verily, such a birth is rare in this world. [BG 6.41-42]
6. *What endeavors are needed to start, continue or sustain bhakti?* kṛṣṇa-bhakti-janma-mūla haya 'sādhu-saṅga' kṛṣṇa-prema janme, teṅho punaḥ mukhya aṅga [CC Madhya 22.83] tamo-dvāraṁ yoṣitāṁ saṅgi-saṅgam [SB 5.5.2]
7. *How to develop in spiritual consciousness?* By the modes in what we are built up i.e. by following varnashrama dharmam. According to the three modes of material nature and the work ascribed to them, the four divisions of human society were created by Me. And, although I am the creator of this system, you should know that I am yet the non-doer, being unchangeable. [BG 4.13]
8. *6 occupational duties/qualities of a Brahamana: paṭhan pāṭhan yajan yājan danaḥ pratigrahaḥ.* Srimad Bhagavatam 7.11-15 chapters. The division is based on qualities, culture and spiritual advancement and it is not simply a birth-right. More details about which class of people attain which planetary system have been talked in 24:00-30:00 minutes in the lecture.
9. *One who does not take saṁskāra, he is śūdra, because janmanā jāyate śūdraḥ. Everyone is born śūdra. But if one does not accept the saṁskāras, he remains a śūdra, not that śūdras are not allowed to take saṁskāra.* - Srila Prabhuada [Room Conversation -- January 17, 1971, Allahabad]
10. *What result are we expecting by doing bhakti?* To practice sadhana bhakti nicely so that We should be able to think of Krishna at the end of life. *If we can't think of Krishna then what?* Yadi vatadi doshena mad bhakto mam na cha smaret aham smarami mad bhaktah nayami parama-gatim  "If My devotee is unable to remember Me at the time of death because of disturbances felt within the body at that time, then I shall remember My devotee and take him back to My supreme abode." – Varaha Purana
11. *Pastime of Lord Jaagnnatha adn devotee Ramachandra deva* - devotee king of Kurda - Story of Appearance of Simhadwara's small deity of Lord Jagannath in Puri temple to reciprocate with his sincere devotees.
12. *Greatest Tapasya is to follow the instructions of the Spiritual Master As It Is.*
