# *SB_1_13_27_SMVP_280720_2457_32*

*00:00* One should become indifferent in this material world and be situated in the self. One's Consciousness be occupied in Krishna's rememberance and service. 

*00:03* Explanation of word *"atmavan"*. Mind and self. One who has controlled his mind, senses, and consciousness.

*00:05* Explanation of word *"nirveda"*. Becoming indifferent to material things. Intelligence crosses moha-kalila (desires/thoughts/conceptions) this way that way I'll be happy.

*00:07* Krishna encourages Arjuna to go beyond religiosity and the three modes of material nature. Traigunyo vishaya veda. Aim for something that is beyond this world.

*00:11* Three qualities - *nirdvandah* (one should go beyond the dualities), *nityasattvastah* (one should be spiritual), *niryogakshemah* (one should be free from the concept of material well-being)

*00:12* Srila Prabhupada pastime. All diseases can be cured by chanting Hare Krishna. However, one should approach a spiritual master for spiritual benefit only and not material.

*00:17* ... bhrantum muhur vedika | mandam bandhava sanchaya ... kamam maha dambikam || Devotees from the world perspective. - Madhavendra Puri.

*00:21* Importance of going out of house for devotional service. 3 out of 12 mahajanas guided Dhritarashtra.

*00:25* Srila Prabhupada pastime with preaching in America.

*00:29* Importance of being a preacher. Situations don't change gradually. A preacher, an advocate of message of Bhagavad-gita is very dear to Lord.

*00:32* Srila Prabhupada wants each and everyone to become *"Narottama"*

*00:35* Room conversation - *BG 4.13* chaturvarnyam maya srishtam - explained caste system.

*00:39* Srila Prabhupada wanted to do the Restablishment of Daivi Varnashrama Dharma

*00:43* Importance of dependence over Lord wherever you are.
  
