*SB_1_7_3_4_JCP_VKH_020314_48*

1. After hearing instruction from Narada muni, Srila Vyasadeva started to think how to narrate Srimad Bhagavatam. He is staying in Badrikashrama. Lord Narayana is very much concerned about the well-being of the living entities. The living entities in this conditioned world are My eternal, fragmental parts. Due to conditioned life, they are struggling very hard with the six senses, which include the mind. [BG 15.7]
2. Living entities are hankering for Pleasure. I try to get satisfied somehow or the other. The living entity, thus taking another gross body, obtains a certain type of ear, tongue, and nose and sense of touch, which are grouped about the mind. He thus enjoys a particular set of sense objects. [BG 15.9]
3. *Why did Lord create all of souls?* Lord wants to enjoy with His part and parcel, souls. But the way soul is created is it can get bewildered thinking that it can independently enjoy without the association of Lord.
4. It is important oneself to purify oneself. *Water has the ability to purify material things.*  maline mocanam pumsam, jala-snanam dine dine sakrid gitamrita-snanam, samsara-mala-nashanam [Gita Mahatmya by Adi Shankaracharya]. We can infuse mantra into water to make it more purifying. *What purifies the mind? meditation on the Supreme Lord.*
5. "No one can understand Kṛṣṇa as He is by the blunt material senses. But He reveals Himself to the devotees, being pleased with them for their transcendental loving service unto Him.” (Padma Purāṇa) ataḥ śrī-kṛṣṇa-nāmādi na bhaved grāhyam indriyāiḥ sevonmukhe hi jihvādau svayam eva sphuraty adaḥ [BG 7.3 purport]
6. *How will we get interest in Krishna Consciousness?* By diligently performing our sadhana and disciplining ourselves. Gradually we become Brahminical and be stable in sattvaguna. And then we get more and more interest in Krishna Consciousness. We can feel the small satisfaction when we complete our sadhana. As we purify ourselves, we get more and more satisfied and can associate with Lord. *Studying scriptures is applying Intelligence in the service of the Lord.*
7. *What makes us attached to our body?* We want to recognise myself with the ideas I produce, the things I create and the fruits of our activities. These are the byproducts of the body. But at the same time we don't want to be recognised with bad products of the body. for e.g. we want to bathe after sweating. By recognising more and more with body, we become karmis and get attached to the body.
8. One should become free from the satisfaction of matter to accept the pleasure obtained from Spiritual processes. As we purify ourselves, we feel the warmth of Krishna. We can see that we are no more being affected by the dualities of the material world and be at peace. The problems of material world affect you no more as you realize you're Spiritual. *If one engages in solving the problems of material world and satisfying material desires emanating from mind, then one gets affected. But as soon as one realizes that these are not the true problems of one's self and are temporarily entangled in the situation, we get detached from the results are immediately in peace.*
9. One has to give up this material nature and accept the Spiritual nature. We need to sit and think and take actions. There are unimportant things that consume our time day and night. Our mind is disinterested in these things. Preaching to others helps us to purify by becoming more and more sincere.
10. We should give everything to Krishna sincerely and whatever Krishna gives in return is prashadam and that is our real enjoyment.
11. Lord is not bound by the laws of material nature. He controls and he knows the intricasies. e.g. fly is stuck in spider web but spider walks freely because it is it's home/creation.
12. Gradually the mind gets absorbed in Krishna Consciousness. Perseverance is the key. 
