*SB_1_13_31_VNTP_260720_24*

1. Everybody needs a spiritual master to show the goal of life. e.g. Dhritarashtra needed Vidura's chastisement for enlightenment.
2. "People who imitate Lord Shiva and intoxicate, cannot enter into Kingdom of God."
3. Someone of divine consciousness is required to kindle the fire of spiritual life. 
4. Srila Prabhupada created ISKCON to help everybody maintain a society of Krishna Consciousness.
5. Even though, by the mercy of Hanuman, Sugriva came back on track to serve the Lord.
6. Association of devotees is required for everyone to walk on the right path because there are innumerable hurdles and possibilities of  deviations.
7. Bhagavad-gita 10.9 mat-citta mad-gata-prana bodhayantah parasparam | kathayantas ca mam nityam tusyanti ca ramanti ca || The thoughts of My pure devotees dwell in Me, their lives are surrendered to Me, and they derive great satisfaction and bliss enlightening one another and conversing about Me.
8. Even though Ravana was shown and warned of Lord Rama's strength, he could not realize. Thus, we need association of devotees to constantly remind us about the reality of the world.
9. e.g. One can make a parrot talk. parrot can go on chanting Hare Krishna. and as soon as it is under attack, then it'll forget chanting. That is difference, we aspire to remember Krishna, and thus at the time of death, we can remember Lord which is the true nature.
10. There will be small crack. Pressure would increase the crack and one day there will be a disaster. Remembering this, one should always endeavour to fix the cracks by being humble and taking association of devotees.
11. Story of Astrologer and poor man. Vedic scriptures and all of us. Spiritual property. The various do's and don't's keep reminding the purpose. When in journey, the destination is very important. Signals are just to make the journey smoother.
12. Speculation will not lead to any good conclusion. Impersonal philosophy will delude you. Search for the love of God.
13. Developing Devotional Service. Krishna, service to Krishna, love of Krishna are the three greatest treasures of life as stated by Lord Chaitany Mahaprabhu.

14. Multiple pastimes of Srila Prabhupada is mentioned throughout the lecture. Do you want to become God or want to serve God? - sweet pastime of Srila Prabhupada.
