*SB_1_3_6_SDP_Grahasta_Tapasya_Rantideva_140413*

1. Suta is explaining: Krishna is the source of various incarnations. The Kumaras explain the importance of Brahmacharya. The purpose of creating this material world is two-fold: 1. An opportunity to enjoy in variety of bodies independent of Lord. 2. To deliver the entangled souls. (To attain the goal of life and to rise to spiritual platform)
2. *Why do people commit sinful activitiess?* The Blessed Lord said: It is lust only, Arjuna, which is born of contact with the material modes of passion and later transformed into wrath, and which is the all-devouring, sinful enemy of this world. [BG 3.37] Thus, a man's pure consciousness is covered by his eternal enemy in the form of lust, which is never satisfied and which burns like fire. [BG 3.39]
3. *What is the purpose of life?* kaṣṭān kāmān arhate viḍ-bhujāṁ ye tapo divyaṁ putrakā yena sattvaṁ[SB 5.5.1] *One should engage in penance and austerity to attain the divine position of devotional service.*
4.This material world is called as *maithuna-agara - Jail with the shackles of sex-life* (attraction to opposite gender). It is most difficult to break out of these shackles for a conditioned soul. Hence, mingling of opposite sex is carefully regulated in Vedic socities. And children are sent to Gurukul to train them to control mind and senses. And before undertaking tapasya, we should aspire to acquire brahminical qualities. Peacefulness, self-control, austerity, purity, tolerance, honesty, wisdom, knowledge, and religiousness-these are the qualities by which the brahmanas work. [BG 18.42]
5. Body means yantra of maya. The purpose of the body is to give different kinds of sense enjoyment and hence the body has urges (vega) in various places. Before giving up this present body, if one is able to tolerate the urges of the material senses and check the force of desire and anger, he is a yogi and is happy in this world. [BG 5.23]
6. *How to control anger?* You can control anger only if you can control your lusty desires. *Lust can be controlled only if you convert it into Love of Godhead* because it is a perverted reflection. We need to change our attitude towards pleasure to become happy eternally. sa vai manaḥ kṛṣṇa-padāravindayor [SB 9.4.18-20] First of all offer your mind in meditating upon the lotus feet of Kṛṣṇa and similarly other senses as explained.
7. *How many forms of life in total in material world?* 8.4 million as explained in Padma purana: jalaja nava laksani sthavara laksha-vimsati krimayo rudra sankhyakat prkshinam dasa-laksanam trimsal-laksani paravah catur laksani manusah. There are 900,000 species living in the water. There are also 2,000,000 nonmoving entities such as trees and plants. There are 1.100,000 species of insects and reptiles and there are 1,000,000 species of birds. As far as animals are concerned there are 3,000,000 varieties and there are 400,000 human species. These are based upon the different kinds of desires to enjoy in material body.
8. *The verdict of the Vedic literature*: āhāra-nidrā-bhaya-maithunaṁ ca sāmānyam etat paśubhir narāṇām dharmo hi teṣām adhiko viśeṣo dharmeṇa hīnāḥ paśubhiḥ samānāḥ. Eating, sleeping, sex, and defense—these four principles are common to both human beings and animals. The distinction between human life and animal life is that a man can search after God but an animal cannot. That is the difference. Therefore a man without that urge for searching after God is no better than an animal.
9. Acts of charity, austerity and sacrifice purify even the elevated souls. dharma-patni: assist in serving the Lord. *The test of a devotee's purity of devotion is the number of people who became devotees in your association for the satisfaction of Lord Krishna.* More lusty desires means so much ignorance.
10. King Rantideva - known for charity - fasting for 48 days. On the day of breaking the fast, he divided the food given to eat. A Brahmana came, then a shudra, then a chandala, then a thirsty man. King distributed all his food and also the glass of water. And then he prayed to Supreme Lord, "Let me be suffering on behalf of all the sinful persons and let them get liberated." para-dukha-dukhi: Great quality of compassion of devotees. Exhalted personalities like Brahma and Lord Shiva were testing him. A pure devotee don't get attracted to material allurements.
11. *The austerity of the body* consists in this: worship of the Supreme Lord, the brahmanas, the spiritual master, and superiors like the father and mother. Cleanliness, simplicity, celibacy and nonviolence are also austerities of the body. [BG 17.14] *Austerity of speech* consists in speaking truthfully and beneficially and in avoiding speech that offends. One should also recite the Vedas regularly. [BG 17.15] And serenity, simplicity, gravity, self-control and purity of thought are the *austerities of the mind.* [BG 17.16]
12. *How to become a lovable person?* One who works in devotion, who is a pure soul, and who controls his mind and senses, is dear to everyone, and everyone is dear to him. Though always working, such a man is never entangled. [BG 5.7]
