SB_1_13_54_SGCP_161209_24

1. Book distribution. We need motivation with knowledge and association. Srila Prabhupada introduced competition for devotees... Extra incentive to go on day after day.
2. Is this mood of competition Bonafide in KC? Is it external support to enhance our Krishna Consciousness. Competition is actually symptom of living entity. Our profit is for Krishna's pleasure and our competition is who will serve better and better.
3. Desires are also a living symptom. Hankering for perfection is seen even in the perfect devotees.
4. Focus is on our own improvement. Envy means focus shifts to other person i.e. pulling the other person down.
5. By reading Krishna book we are knowing how to show real living symptoms. In material world it is the perverted reflection.
6. We should not work for our own sense enjoyment. Anything done with passion ends up in distress.
7. In the material world, the field of activities i.e. material body shows living symptoms and soul is just an observer and falsely thinks that it is body.
8. How to make perverted living symptoms to loving devotional service - pratyahara and the process is pranayama. Purify the life air by controlling the breathing process.
9. Bhakti yoga includes everything. Simply do the sadhana bhakti nicely. Getting rid of the material contamination is not the scope of mind control. The process is to listen to Srimad Bhagavatam
10. Become self-disciplined in sadhana. Slowly but gradually the contaminations will be purified. Systematic way of life is actually sattva-guna. Opposite of sattva-guna is whimsical activities.
11. Even sattva-guna is entangling us in the material world. But to begin as sadhakas we should come to sattva-guna and then transcend to higher platforms. Sattva-guna is inconvenient in the beginning but pleasurable in the end and we should aspire it.
