*BS BG 15.5-10 ACRP 050519_32*

1. Connection between chapter 14 and 15. Krishna has a definite structure. In chapter 14, in conclusion Lord Krishna says transcend the modes of material nature by performing devotional service. Now he continues to tell how to do the devotional service.
2. Prabhu explains Detachment using examples. Krishna is using a metaphor of a banyan tree in the first two verses of chapter 15 to teach us about material world and how to be detached.
4. Ashwatha tree - Material world, Leaves - Vedic hymns, Branches - Upper and lower planetary systems, Twigs - Sense objects, Fruits - Dharma-artha-kama-moksha, Nourishment of tree - 3 modes of material nature.
5. Ashwa: not tomorrow, sta: not fixed -> Ashwatha - that which will not exist tomorrow. For devotees: Because devotees will go back to GodHead and non devotees: they have to change the body - definition of tree changes w.r.t. body for them based on guna-karma.
6. Understand the tree of Illusion - why? We cannot solve a problem before understanding the problem and do the root cause analysis.
7. how does this verse refutes impersonalism? Because this tree is a reflection of the real spiritual tree.
8. Depending on the impact of modes of material nature; the living entity gets the body and to that extent one can get deluded.
9. The beginning, end and extent of the tree of the tree cannot be measured. This is to signify that it is not so important to dive into the questions like when and how the jiva came into this tree but to get out of it ASAP by doing devotional services and later do the research.
10. This tree cannot be easily uprooted - suviroodhamulam... it can only be done by asangashastrena - axe of Detachment to overcome.
11. Detachment: 1.Discussion of Knowledge from authoritative scriptures and 2. Association of devotees and hearing from the pure devotees of the Lord. We should not get lost in this material world. Detachment should not be shallow.
12. Association with Material world should be just as a matter of duty. To be extremely careful with Association. Wrong Association has very bad results as desires get planted in our mind and may fructify later.
13. Go back to Krishna <- Cut the roots of the tree <- Detachment <- Surrender <- Devotional service <- Chanting and Hearing
14. *How to Surrender? Not the way we want to but the way Krishna wants... 6 things in 5th verse. 1. Free from false pride (nirmana), 2. Freedom from Delusion, 3. Freedom from false Association...*
15. *Definition of humility by Srila Prabhupada: "One should not be anxious to have the satisfaction of being praised/honored by others. Only when you are free from pride, surrender process will start."* How to overcome pride: "not my ability, it is all by the grace of Krishna"
