*MPGP_BS_BG_3_22_32_290418*

1. Although Krishna is the Supreme Personality of Godhead, he did his duties dedicatedly so that people can follow. It is the duty of householders are obliged to demigods and offer due respects to everyone. Krishna would wake up early morning, do meditation, offer respects to demigods, sages and forefathers. He would give charity and then take blessings from the elders. Krishna would perform all His duties perfectly... To educate us.
2. Rules and regulations are meant for conditioned souls and doesn't apply to the Lord. Still, He followed very sincerely so that people would follow. Why did Krishna not follow rules during war? Krishna wanted to establish the His Supreme Independence. He is not bound by any rules. We cannot and should not imitate Krishna's actions but we can follow His words and instructions.
3. If we neglect our duties then there will be varna-sankara -> A learned person performs his duty and be detached from the results. One should work hard and sacrifice their results for the service of the Supreme Lord and thus guide others to do the right thing i.e. to not engage in material sense gratification.
4. Intelligent people should not agitate the minds of people who are attached to fruitive work. We should just help them be engaged in some devotional service. Once engaged, then they'll gradually get detachment from sense gratification of the results of one's activity.
5. *What is the position of a person who is attached?* Such a person thinks that he is the doer of all the activities but actually Krishna is the doer.. A good leader acknowledges the hard work of the subordinates. We should remember that we're under the control of three modes of material nature. *(We have desire to wake up, but Lord wakes us up. We should never be over confident.)*
6. *Who is the knower of Absolute Truth?* One who knows the tattva - "Jiva is part and parcel of Krishna. One suffers due to one's past activities. One should not do sense gratification to avoid material bodies. One should work in devotion." Such a person aspires for eternal spiritual life.
7. One should come out of ignorance and passion and act in full knowlege i.e. Krishna Consciousness.
8. When one follows Krishna's instructions faithfully without envy becomes free from Bondage and get Liberation. Instruction of Krishna is the essence of all Vedic wisdom.
